There's another really great module for
taking streams that are duplex,
for example, RPC stream and packing
many of them, maybe some bulk streams,
maybe streams that do all kinds
of things into a single stream.
Because for example, in browsers you
only can establish so many outgoing
connections, maybe they're WebRTC sockets,
maybe they're WebSocket connections.
But you don't necessarily want to have
to open up a new WebSocket connection to
deal with a new streaming interface.
So this package multiplex lets you pack
multiple streams into the same one.
So here's what that can look like, so
this is a pretty complicated example but
these ideas tend to be somewhat
more complicated in practice.
So in this example,
we're starting up a new multiplex
system on it's just a TCP server
like before with a duplex stream.
So we create plex which is also a duplex
stream because we see this pattern here
is stream.pipe(plex).pipe(stream),
very familiar.
Then we can create a client just like
before, like RPC stream in this case.
But the RPC stream function is also
creating more streams inside of it.
So this is just getting back cuz I love
that satellite example we talked about way
in the beginning.
Where you kind of have your FTP style port
where you've got your control signal,
and then you've got like your high
bandwidth other signals that are opened up
this is sort of the same idea.
Where RPC signal is we're talking
text to the satellite over some
low frequency that's more reliable.
Then we have our higher frequency
band that we're gonna use
to just pull down dumps
of like cloud imagery.
I don't know whatever satellites do.
So here in our read function we
taken the name as an argument.
If the name has some screwy characters
in it we're just gonna say nope not
gonna do that and bail out early.
Otherwise, we can create a ReadStream
from files in a files directory and
if that file doesn't exist
then an error will happen, so
that'll just call the callback
with an error response.
Otherwise, we have yet
another duplex stream.
Notice a.pipe.b.pipe.a
again where we take the, or
sorry that's a ReadStream, so I don't
even know how that would not blow up but.
Wait, I see.
Yeah, okay, whatever.
So we can call plex.createReadStream or
.createStream
which sets up a different channel
on the same multiplex system.
So we've got our RPC channel, and
then we've got however many other
channels that are sort of for bulk data.
So we don't have to sort of squish that
kind of stuff through an RPC system which
was inefficient,
it doesn't really make much sense.
Multiplex uses protobufs behind
the scenes, so it's got a lot better
framing protocol then we would
probably come up with very easily.
So and then at the end,
just call back null no error, it's fine.
We still hook up the RPC stream to
the duplex connection and that's it.
It's a very complicated example, but
hopefully it'll shed some light.
The client is a little
bit easier to understand.
So what the client does in this case is it
pulls down, so it sets up a connection,
duplex connection with TCP
socket listening to the server.
And then every time there's a stream
that is created with createStream on
the other end this function is gonna fire.
If it's a stream that starts with
file then we can print out a message
that we received it, and we can just
dump the results to standard out.
We could also dump it to other kinds
of writable streams like for example,
like fs.createWriteStream or
create G zip or whatever you like.
Then finally, we wire up the multiplex
to the RPC connection as well on
the SharedStream which our server has,
so you notice that these lines are the
same between our server and our client.
And then finally,
we can call some of these remote methods.
So we can call remote.read with a command
line argument that's gonna be the name
of the file that we wanna read out of
the files directory, so that was a lot.
I can step through it again if people
are still wanna do it, but I wanna run
through actually running it first and
I can show you how it works that way.
Okay, so I'll make a directory plex.
Gonna Copy > Paste these examples
cuz these are real tricky to get
working the first time let me tell you.
Can't live code everything.
[LAUGH] And then our client, here we go.
So I'm gonna run the server so
that opens up, TCP connection on 5000.
I need to make a files directory
because that's where our client is
gonna read from.
And I can go ahead and
make some files like hello in there.
And I'll make a second file too.
Some of these dog sounds.
They sorta say like rawr, rawr, as well,
so I'm gonna put that in there.
Okay, so we have two files in our files
directory and now I can run the client
which remember is gonna take an argument
from standard in or from the command line.
So it's gonna, Open up hello.
RECEIVED FILE hello with
the contents from the server.
I can also do dog.sounds.
RECEIVED FILE dog.sounds.
Dogs sound.
Right, so that file didn't exist so
it didn't do anything,
but we've now received both of our files.
So this is sort of like,
kind of like an ad hoc implementation of
something like HTTP but pipelines so
it's all in the same connection.
And not that much code, I mean,
you could step through it in two slides.
Although, it's nontrivial just the same.
Just to go over what's in those again.
So we have our TCP server.
We've got our multiplex connection
which is a duplex stream.
We pipe our TCP connection into
our duplex multiplex stream and
this sort of like just
gloms them together so
that the multiplex can communicate on
the TCP connection when it comes in.
We then establish an RPC connection
on one of the channels that multiplex
provides which is wired up
right here it's called 'rpc'.
We can name them if we like.
Then when the client calls our
read: function we can load a file
from the files directory and
pipe it into, should actually,
Be like that.
And we can pipe those file
contents into a shared stream.
Meanwhile, on the client side of things,
the client does the same thing
setting up the connection.
And when the client calls that
function defined on the server
with the name that we give it
on (process.argv) then it's
gonna kick off this function that
fires with the stream and the id.
And we can pipe the stream to
standard out or wherever we like, and
we can print out what the id is for
the file that we've received.
So that again is how you can wire up
something that's pretty powerful,
pretty sophisticated with
a couple of modules and
some very interesting
ideas like duplex streams.
So that is all I have for this workshop.
So if anyone has any questions both on
the chat or in person you can ask them but
otherwise, that's all I have.